# Google Season of Docs projects 2024

`sktime` is applying for Google Season of Docs 2024.

We are looking for technical writers with an interest in ML/AI and a background in python.
See [here for GSoD's application guide](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/tech-writer-guide).

Organizations apply for GSoD with proposals, and are asked to pre-identify interested technical writers.
Parameters of the project are: 3-6 months, 5-15k USD.

Payment from `sktime` is milestone based, base pay is the same (FTE pro-rated) as [Google Summer of Code stipends](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/help/student-stipends).

Timelines ([more details on GSoD](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline)):

* We will know on April 10 whether sktime is accepted for GSoD (following steps apply only if yes)
* Interviews will take place April 15 - 25. Preferred dates are April 15, 16, 17 (other dates on request).
* We aim to send confirmation on the outcome and complete hiring by May 6. Hiring must be complete by May 22 or before.

### Application to GSoD at sktime

To express interest, fill in and submit the sktime application form at (https://forms.gle/MVcf9Q45Ui1ByMxM8), by April 12.

Please ensure to mark "GSoD" as the programme you are applying for.


### Project: Improving user journey in retrieving algorithms, tags, metadata

`sktime` is a library in a quite literal sense of the word - it provides unified interfaces to hundreds of objects (at time of writing: 392),
among them ML/AI algorithms, and other objects such as performance metrics. The objects can be contributed and maintained by anyone in the world.

The full list of objects is presented on the [searchable estimator table, on the sktime webpage](https://www.sktime.net/en/latest/estimator_overview.html),
and can also be retrieved and searched via python, in the library, e.g.,

```python
from sktime.registry import all_estimators

res = all_estimators()
```

Each estimator has tags, e.g., forecasters can be inspected regarding their capabilities, such as being able to make in-sample predictions, probabilistic forecasts, etc.

```python
from sktime.forecasting.arima import ARIMA

ARIMA.get_class_tags()
```

However, `sktime` documentation has not been too great in providing users with access to this information.
For instance, the tags are not displayed in the web documentation at all.

While it is possible to retrieve everything in python, the ambition is to make it as easy as possible to obtain the same in our online documentation, in static and interactive elements.

Further, basic information on the taxonomic primitives, e.g., basic estimator types, data types, tags, is missing from the online documentation. Examples: what is forecaster, what does it mean to forecast in-sample.
Pages with such information should be created, and cross-linked from the top and mid level API documentation.

In summary, the aim of this project is to enhance user journeys, enabling efficient search, retrieval, and comprehension of algorithms based on their capabilities from the online documentation. This improvement would spans three layers: expanding documentation content, optimizing documentation design, and extending the codebase API infrastructure.

### Goals

#### 1. Addition of Technical Documentation on Taxonomic Primitives

* Provide detailed documentation of sktime's basic components, including estimator types, data types, and tags.
* Introduce mathematical or conceptual explanations alongside practical demonstrations for clarity.
* Expand on tutorials and examples, integrating benchmarking to enable comparisons. The extended goal is to create a resource similar to the comprehensive documentation of `scikit-learn`, particularly their [User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) and [Examples](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/index.html).


#### 2.  Enhancement of General Web UI and Lookup Functionality

* Improve the accessibility of online documentation, possibly incorporating interactive elements for better presentation and user engagement.
* Develop a database-like system to interlink `sktime`'s estimators and other core objects, enabling efficient queries and navigation.

#### 3. Extension and Improvement of Python Code and API

* Extend and enhance the python codebase to facilitate improvements in online documentation, particularly focusing on estimator taxonomy and core retrieval API.
* Engage in ongoing API discussions of module design and organization such as Issue [#4950](https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/4950).

### Measures of success

* Positive user feedback through existing feedback channels (user feedback thread, discord)
* Increase in references using new structure/taxonomy made by developers on the help desk
* Increase of meaningful user journeys through the estimator tables and potential tag-specific cross-links

### Useful skills

* Technical writing with some background in ML, AI, data science, statistics or mathematics
* Entry level familiarity with the python data science ecosystem, optimally scikit-learn or comparable packages (not strictly needed)
* Basic understanding of data base schemas or object taxonomies
* Familiarity with basic contribution workflows using git, GitHub
* Nice to have: familiarity with sphinx, reStructuredText, markdown

